<h1>RFID support</h1>
<p>RFID support uses the RFID readers and USB interface that can be obtained from [https://www.sparkfun.com/products/11839 | 
Spark Fun Electronics - RFID Starter Kit].  In order to be able to identify which USB reader has read an RFID tag, the standard Virtual COM Port (VCP)
comm port drivers for Linux and Windows cannot be used. Instead, the D2XX drivers appropriate driver for your system must be installed. 
The drivers and installation instructions can be found [http://www.ftdichip.com/Drivers/D2XX.htm |here] and 
[http://www.ftdichip.com/Support/Documents/AppNotes/AN_220_FTDI_Drivers_Installation_Guide_for_Linux%20.pdf |Installation guide].</p>

<p>Once the D2XX driver has been installed, the ftdilib project can then be built.</p>
<h2>Linux considerations</h2>
<p>The D2XX driver will only be accessible for root users unless several other changes are made to your system. </p>
<h3>rules.d</h3>
A special rules.d file containing the following two lines must be created in /etc/udev/rules.d/99-ftdi.rules:

SUBSYSTEMS=="usb",  ATTRS{idVendor}=="0403", ATTRS{idProduct}=="6001", MODE:="0660", GROUP="adm", SYMLINK+="FTDI1", DRIVERS=="usb"<br>

SUBSYSTEMS=="usb",  ATTRS{idVendor}=="0403", ATTRS{idProduct}=="6001" ACTION=="add" RUN+="/usr/local/bin/ftdi_rmmod.sh"<br>

<p>The above example will allow access to users in the "adm" group. If you wish, you can create a group other than "adm". The user must me a member of
whatever group is specified in /etc/udev/rules.d/99-ftdi.rules. The rule also runs a script that automatically unloads the default VCP driver 
when a FTDI USB device is plugged in: "/usr/local/bin/ftdi_rmmod.sh". It should contain the following 3 lines:</p>

#!/bin/sh<br>
rmmod ftdi_sio<br>
rmmod usbserial<br>

Note: Make sure that "/etc/udev/rules.d/99-ftdi.rules" is executable!
